Docs for updating docker images (#547)
AlexsLemonade/OpenScPCA-analysis: docs/ensuring-repro/docker/updating-images.md

# Updating Docker images

Over the course of module development, new dependencies may get added or removed, thereby changing the [module's software environment](../managing-software/index.md).
As modules progress to maturity, there are important considerations to bear in mind when updating the module's software environment.

In particular, over the course of module development, the Data Lab will activate two [GitHub Action (GHA) workflows](../workflows/index.md) to ensure module reproducibility:

- A GHA workflow to [build and push the module's Docker image](#STUB_LINK../workflows/docker-build-gha.md) to the OpenScPCA Docker Registry
    - This GHA automatically runs when pull requests (PRs) that modify a module's environment are merged into `main`
- A GHA workflow to [run the module using test data](../workflows/run-module-gha.md)
    - This GHA automatically runs on PRs that modify any module code
    - Once the module's Docker image has been pushed to the OpenScPCA Docker Registry, this GHA will pull that Docker image to build a runtime environment.

>     Therefore, for this GHA to succeed, it must use the most up-to-date Docker image.

Reviewer: I feel like there should be a section on_how_ Docker images are updated and used which would include this information and then the second section should be how to actually update it. So I would break this out and talk about this in it's own section.

> Once both of these workflows have been activated, you will need to file two PRs every time you write code that takes advantage of changes to the module software environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once both of these workflows have been implemented, you will need to file two PRs every time you write code that introduces changes to the module software environment:
```
It might be helpful to provide some specific examples of when you would actually do this. For example, you are using a new package that you haven't used in this module before.

1. First, file a PR that contains _only_ changes to your module's environment files, e.g. `renv.lock` and/or `conda.lock`.
This PR should not include additional code changes that require the updated environment.
    - Once this PR is merged, the module's Docker image will be rebuilt and pushed to the OpenScPCA Docker Registry
1. Second, file a PR that includes the code changes which use the update software environment

>     - By ensuring the updated Docker image is pushed to the registry _before_ filing this PR, the [module testing GHA](../workflows/run-module-gha.md) will be able to use most up-to-date Docker image and avoid dependency errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - By ensuring the updated Docker image is pushed to the registry _before_ filing this PR, the [module testing GHA](../workflows/run-module-gha.md) will be able to use the most up-to-date Docker image and avoid dependency errors
```

Over the course of module development, new dependencies and packages may get added or removed, thereby changing the [module's software environment](../managing-software/index.md).
For example, your environment will change if you add a new R or Python package to perform additional analyses.
Changing the software environment means that module-specific Docker image also needs to be updated to incorporate those changes.

!!! note
    These instructions assume that the Data Lab has already activated both of the [GitHub Action (GHA) workflows](../../contributing-to-analyses/analysis-modules/creating-a-module.md#module-workflows) that were created when the module was established, including the [module-testing GHA](../workflows/run-module-gha.md) and the [Docker-building GHA](#STUB_LINK../workflows/docker-build-gha.md).

    In addition, the module-testing GHA should have already been updated to build its runtime environment from the module's Docker image, not from other environment files (e.g. `renv.lock` or `conda-lock.yml`.)

    If these conditions are not met, you do not need to take any specific steps to update Docker images when you update a module's software environment.

> ## Context (header help???)

Author: > Or just don't have a header at all since this is all intro/background before getting into the steps.

I think this is probably best, since the header felt a little forced to me
